---
layout: post
date: 2005-08-12 17:53:45
title: CUT BAIT
image:
   feature: sky-words1.png
categories:
  - Choice Vocabulary

---

Having returned from a salubrious vacation on the Continent, involving the most minimal of hospital stays (it is true what they say about Old Country hospitality), I am pleased to return to our series on words that sound much more vulgar than they actually are. 

When casting about for an epithet, the animal kingdom offers a number of alternatives to the tired _simian_, _jackass_, _pig_, and _snake_. For example, the insect world offers us _hellgrammite_, a word of uncertain origin that is familiar to fishermen as a name for a dobsonfly larva. It is variously spelled _hellgrammite_, _hellgramite_, or _hellgamite_, but in any spelling it is the initial _hell-_ that grabs our attention. 

Encountering this word, one is initially reminded of _hellspawn_, _hellhound_, and _hellhag_, a term which has suprisingly not yet made it onto t-shirts for the nation's  tweens. The ultimate syllable _-mite_ suggests something classically unsavory, along the lines of _catamite_. This combination renders _hellgrammite_ a potent contributor to nigh-Shakespearean imprecations. 

_The Genilman:_ Lookin' good there, girl!

_The Lady:_ Aroint thee, hellgrammite!

_The Genilman:_ . . . That's cold, baby, cold.

In this regard, _hellgrammite_ excels beyond the North American giant salamander, or _hellbender_, which once bequeathed its name to a shoot-em-up video game. One supposes that 'Giant Salamander' wouldn't quite have the same cachet in the gamer community.

_The Geek Chorus:_ Dood! That game was weak!

_Myself:_ Was it now?

_The Geek Chorus:_ Totally. The game engine was creaky, the frame rate blew. You're in a fighter, so there's no hand-to-hand. Waste of time.

_Myself:_ I see. And exactly how old were you in 1996?

_The Geek Chorus:_ Well. . .

_Myself:_ I think that someone's been googling old reviews again.

_The Geek Chorus:_ Well, whatever. Install's nearly over, so later, man.

_Myself:_ Goodbye.
